Okay. Now this code here shows how you can use the Lambda function as
well as how you can use a closure to execute the Lambda at a later point in time.
Let's start from the top. Now what we have here is an integer code ID,
which, initially when the program starts is set to 0.
Then we have the first Lambda usage here.
It's overwritten with capture by reference and it's going to be an immutable call,
that means what is passed to the Lambda is not going to be changed by the Lambda itself.
So let's look at this line here carefully.
So we are going to let the compiler determine the type of f0,
which is the return value,
returned by the Lambda.
This is basically the closure which we can use later on.
Then we have the first block of code here.
This is making a reference to our integer ID available to the inside of the Lambda.
We're not going to pass any parameters.
The reference is going to be passed immutable.
That means we're not going to change the reference to this memory address here,
where the ID is.
Within here, we're going to simply print
a ID in Lambda and then we're going to print the ID itself,
then we will see some output at the console.
That's the first thing which we do here.
Now then second thing, second line,
we're also going to create a second Lambda using auto and then f1.
Now we are passing ID by value.
That means we're going to make a copy of it.
We're not going to change the original ID.
But nonetheless, we are defining it as mutable.
That means ID can be changed within the Lambda itself.
Accordingly inside the Lambda,
we are printing ID in Lambda and we're going to increment ID by 1.
So instead of 0 it's supposed to be 1 when we print it.
Afterwards, we're going to call the closure and execute the code within the Lambda.
Now after calling the closure and executing this code here,
we're printing ID in main again,
and ID in main is also outputting id.
The question here is, and this is going to be what we will be looking at in the output,
what's going to be printed here?
Now my personal expectation would be we are setting ID to 0 here.
Then we are copying ID into the Lambda incrementing the copy by one,
giving us ID Lambda equals one.
Then here, ID in main as this ID should not have been changed,
because we have passed this one here by value and not by reference.
We should still have the 0 here,
but let's wait and see.
Now the next one is captured by a reference,
but now a mutable reference.
So auto f2.
F2 is also the closure which is executed right after defining the Lambda,
also is mutable, and we are outputting the ID here,
also incrementing it by 1.
Then the question is when we do this an output ID in
Lambda equals the ID at that point in time to the console,
what's going to be the output of ID in main here?
Well, it's also output the ID.
Will reflect the change we performed here or would it
not reflect the change which we performed here?
Lastly, but before we finish by calling f0 at the end,
we are passing a parameter.
Now we are not transferring ID in the squared brackets here,
but we're passing it as a constant parameter to the Lambda.
Then again, we're outputting it here.
The reason I included this example here
is the call to the closure is a bit different now.
Instead of calling it without any arguments,
we are now inputting ID again into the Lambda.
But before we pass it into it,
we're also incrementing it by 1,
which has to reflect here inside the Lambda.
Afterwards, at the end,
we're going to execute f0,
which is the Lambda we defined right at the start.
So a lot of incrementing,
a lot of passing by a value,
by reference, by mutable reference.
So let's take a look at the output to see what's going on
and to maybe explain the different results we're going to see.
Let's start up the program.
Let's take a look at the debug console.
Here's the output.
Let's look at what's going to happen here.
So the first output which we can find here that maybe- I can't scroll up.
Let me see if I can resize this,
not without including the rest. Let's do it in here.
So ID in Lambda equals 1.
So b has been executed first.
Lets move up here to find b.
So this is the first code that has been executed.
That makes sense because only defining the Lambda here didn't start the Lambda.
We only started the code,
the closure at the end of the main function.
That's the reason why we do not see a here.
So the first thing to see is b.
Because we incremented ID here before outputting it to the console,
it says ID in Lambda equals 1.
We have passed it by value,
that means we made a copy,
and this is also the reason why here in c,
ID in main equals, let's go down,
0 is to be found on the console,
because the change which has been performed inside the Lambda
has not been performed on the original ID integer but on its copy.
So this is why we can see ID in main equals 0 here.
Now let's move on to the next line which is this one here d is called next.
Here, we are capturing it by reference.
That means we are passing ID as reference into this one here.
We're incrementing it.
The output here in d is- let's look at the console below,
ID in Lambda equals 1.
Because the variable has been passed by reference,
the change is reflecting to the original version of ID,
and this is why in the next line, line number 18,
ID in main where we output ID,
the change has been reflected to the original.
So we have been working on the original ID in our Lambda function.
Okay. Let's move on. The next call is F ID in Lambda.
We pass it as a parameter,
as a constant parameter to be honest here.
So ID in Lambda,
let's take a look at f,
f equals 2 now.
So why is this the case?
Let's take a look at one line further, further down.
So this is the point where we call the closure f3.
But before passing ID into it,
we are incrementing ID by 1,
which is the reason why at the console,
we see the output ID and Lambda equals 2.
After all this passing,
all this transferring variables into the Lambdas and taking them out again,
we are now calling our original closure f0,
which at this point in time,
because, let's scroll up again,
it has been given a reference to ID,
and now it's accessing the reference,
but the data at the reference has changed by all the operations here.
This is why when we call the closure at this point in time,
shortly before returning from the main program,
we see the original Lambda,
sorry, the original ID changed to 2.
So at the end,
the original closure is called accessing
the changed value of ID and this is why we see ID in Lambda equals 2 at the end.
So you have been very careful with what you passed to a Lambda. Is it a reference?
Is it passed by value?
Is it mutable?
Is it non-mutable?
Is it even maybe a function parameter?
So taking all this into account,
you can clearly see that Lambdas help you make your life with concurrency much easier,
but also it's a great source for error,
because including one ampersand or forgetting an ampersand,
can greatly influence how your program works and how it sees different variables.
So take care when using Lambda.